- [storyboard](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVMRX_488=/?moveToWidget=3458764625629405777&cot=14)
- [script](https://pad.riseup.net/p/OMlf7RmItLSCEhM_ZC5B)
	- legend
	  collapsed:: true
		- ty
		  background-color:: green
		- mut
		  background-color:: pink
	- **one liner**
	  2 22s 59w
		- this is pondlife: discone (a videogame). an online, multiplayer, momentum-based 3d-platformer. a difficult climbing game, but one that's nice. it's an open game about opt-in challenge. about finding climbing paths and attempting them. it's a world for 
		  players to find a far-off spire, dance, or play tag, while chatting about their day. it's a new playground.
	- **who are we**
	  2 14s 43w
		- hey, we're pondlife, the studio behind this game.
		- i'm ty
		  background-color:: green
		- and i'm moochi
		  background-color:: pink
		- we started this game as our master's thesis at the nyu game center. we've been working on it since, alongside an amazing community of collaborators, mentors and peers in brooklyn.
	- **the best 3d platformer ever**
	  3 35s 107w
		- we're making the best 3d platformer ever.
		  background-color:: pink
		- big claim, we know.
		  background-color:: green
		- we've dialed in the fundamentals: moving and jumping. simply moving your 
		  character around (even jumping in place!) should be an endless source of discovery.
		- movement is analog. small variations in input, terrain, and **momentum** produce a deep, explorable possibility space. each new attempt at an obstacle should feel fresh.
		- and **momentum** is not only about fast, flowing lines. it's also careful and considered. changing a single step may be all it takes reach the next ridge.
		- the climb is the joy of exploring the nuances of your character and its interaction with...
	- **"openness" & discovery**
	  3 25s 92w
		- ...an open, free, unknown world. we're building a world that eases you in 
		  through designed structures, but removes them as you ascend. until only 
		  organic boulders remain.
		- this openness is the chance to pick a route, try a jump, or recover from a mistake not only that you never have before, but that **nobody** has before. this is real discovery, and it's **yours**.
		- some routes might be **really** hard. we love difficulty, but we want you to take a deep breath and plant a flower when you need to. this is not a ragegame.
	- **multiplayer**
	  5 ??s 146w
		- it's an online game. you don't have to struggle alone. you can learn from others and share what you know with them, too. you might find remnants of another player's experience entices you forward. you might find that player and chase them as they run away from you. you might challenge each other to a race, a difficult jump, or a game of horse.
		- we're both passionate about folk games. tag, tug of war: the ones you might've played as a kid. twitch streamers already play hide and seek online in mario odyssey, we want to bring that spirit to everyone with discone. to create a world for players to play their own games. maybe this spot is a good hiding spot...
		- it's a place to be with your friends, or with strangers, to play games or to hang out, to teach, learn, connect. and jump.
	- **for tryhards, for casual groups of friends, for...**
	  2 ??s 66w
		- we're making this game for many people. for casual groups of friends, looking for a run-and-jump hike together as they chat about their days.
		- for tryhards who want refine every nuance in their movement, become untaggable, optimize routes, make a world-first summit.
		- for committed groups of gamers, who want to follow one another to far off vistas, scale every tower, unravel the deep lore.
		- -
	- **scale / market of references** 
	  5 ??s 210w (with stats => 279w)
		- let's look at some market references
		- golf with your friends has sold millions of copies, it continues to be successful as an option for casual groups looking for tonight's chill game.
		  collapsed:: true
			- (it was released in 2020 and moved an estimated 60 thousand copies in april 2025.)
		- discone is made for players that might buy a game and play it twice, later convince new friends to grab it during the next sale or when an update drops. our own long tail is a stream of new characters*, locations*, items*, folk games*.
		- roblox: in 2025, it averages millions of concurrent players. obbys*, exploration, and games like hide and seek are an extremely durable category.
		  collapsed:: true
			- (at 1 on a tuesday, the top 15 obby-like games had 118 thousand players. tower of hell* released in 2018 and *still* averages 20 thousand players.)
		- obviously, we're not free to play nor everywhere like roblox. but the generation invested in roblox obbys and playing with others now will graduate to steam. discone manifests that community's spirit in a more considered game. (it only has one button, we can bring it to mobile).
		- dedicated communities in counter strike, team fortress, minecraft, & others explore *just* movement: bunny hopping, surf, kz, rocket jumping.
		  collapsed:: true
			- (the cs surf map "utopia" has 380 thousand subscribers. tf2 jump academy sports a 45 thousand member discord. momentum mod, a standalone source map player, has 100 thousand wishlists.)
		- these are "skateparks"; for casual players to try their first trick, for tryhards to showoff their 30th. beyond parks, the diverse, analog movement of multiple characters and focus on open play in discone also embrace *street* skating. a *world* for spectatorship to inspire awe or to push yourself further.
	- **appeal to streamers**
	  1 ??s 32w
		- discone is built for modern spectatorship: streaming. for speed running up seemingly insurmountable mountain routes, for co-streaming a big game of hide & seek, for the schadenfreude of the "foddian" rage game...
	- **but we are different...**
	  2 ??s 60w
		- but. discone is different from these references. it's about the freedom to explore, to choose your challenges, to replace "rage" with "play". it has no arbitrary difficulty: no snapping, no invisible walls, no kaizo blocks*.
		- it's prestige levels of care put into analog movement, momentum, conveyance, multiplayer. folk platforming. you, your friends, and your desire to jump around the world.
	- **rapid-fire list of future features**
	  1 ??s 23w
		- we have a lot in mind for the future that won't fit in this video, but we'd love to chat about it later.
	- **roadmap/timeline**
	  3 ??s 94w
		- we've planned a roadmap with **2 years** to initial release. presently, we're in **pre-production**, developing our content creation pipeline.
		- we're targeting **12 months** to finish our **vertical slice**, a representative "content pack": a character to play, regions to explore, toys to play with, cosmetics that add personality.
		- from there, we'll move into **12 months** of **production**, exercising the pipeline by creating a new content pack every 4 months, and then release.
		- **post-release**, we'll continue expanding the game through the 4-month update cycle, add new multiplayer systems, and run server-wide folk game events.
	- **budget**
	  1 ??s 40w
		- we're asking for $550,000 to support our 2 year release plan. that covers our full-time design & development costs, hiring people part-time for art & sound, and fixed production costs (studio space, tools, &c).
	- **thanks**
	  1 ??s 15w
		- we hope you consider it and enjoy pondlife: discone (a videogame).
		- thanks for your time!
	- **END**
	  30 5m42s 987w
- wip
  id:: 6808f7a0-1e9b-492a-9aec-d3358622fa6a
	- TODO layout everything in davinci resolve #publishing
	- TODO shot 1: cold open with two players on non-human mountain racing / climbing, playing well #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	  id:: 68090649-400f-4bbd-ad10-51efe4b7cb3a
	- TODO shot 2: us in real life introducing ourselves #publishing #footage/irl
	- TODO shot 3: individual video of people waving #publishing #footage/irl
	- TODO shot 4: people playing discone local multiplayer #publishing #footage/irl
	- TODO shot 5: icecream walking/running a bit, exercise jump dynamics between courtyard blocks: forwards, backwards, l/r #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 6: running up ramp w/ sporadic/mashed jumps #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 7: [[getting over it]] #publishing #footage/reference
	- TODO shot 8: jumping up green wall #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 9: wall running #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 10: [[cs surf]] #publishing #footage/reference
	- TODO shot 11: jumping between wall / ground near tetris #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 12: multi-obstacle climbing sequence linking many techniques, preserving momentum when necessary and redirecting it when necessary #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 13: [[mario 64]] [[peach's courtyard]] #publishing #footage/reference
	- TODO shot 14: drone shots up the mountain showing degradation in human structures #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 15: backwards jump to get momentum onto tricky small platform #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 16: failing a steep ramp / wall and struggling over the last corner with a kick / up #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 17: finding a non-obvious route on the backside of a failed route #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 18: cut in as character sees a difficult narrow path. the narrator explains how to plant a flower, planting the flower, running on and failing, reloading to flower, jumping in to try again, cut mid jump #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 19: 1 player struggling to get up birthplace ramp #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 20: 10 players struggling to get up birthplace ramp, one person demos, they all start getting it #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 21: seeing a flower in a tough spot, trying to get there #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 22: finding the player who planted it, chasing them up the mountain and falling #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 23: race to the bell #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 24: playing folk games irl (earthball @ [[new games tournament]], tug of war) #publishing #footage/reference
	- TODO shot 25: streamers playing [[mario odyssey]] hide #footage/reference
	  and seek #publishing
	- TODO shot 26: playing [[tag]] in the birthplace playground #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 27: playing [[horse]] on housing #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 28: playing [[sardines]] (find a good hiding spot) #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 29: player doing the same thing on repeat #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 30: friends playing games on discord #publishing #footage/irl
	- TODO shot 31: [[webfishing]] #publishing #footage/reference
	- TODO shot 32: looking up @ friends climbing @ various heights #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 33: survival crafting games (raft, the forest, &c) #publishing #footage/reference
	  id:: 68090942-2ad2-43b6-80f2-b4498496ecda
	- TODO shot 34: cuts of players engaging w/ successively higher parts of the mountain, debris, maybe very long bridge #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 35: fixed camera upwards view of the entire mountain & someone climbing #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 36: fixed camera upwards view of a [[roblox]] obby & someone climbing #publishing #footage/reference
	- TODO shot 37: [[roblox]] players / wishlist / sales chart #publishing #graphic
	- TODO shot 38: racing around the bowl #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 39: movement mods ([[cs surf]], [[tf2]] rocket jumping) #publishing #footage/reference
	- TODO shot 40: movement mods ([[cs surf]], [[tf2]] rocket jumping) players / wishlist / sales chart #publishing #graphic
	- TODO shot 41: players walking around, vibing, holding hands, one or two players trying something, someone falling into the hole #publishing #footage/multiplayer
	- TODO shot 42: [[golf with your friends]] #publishing #footage/reference
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z6F5-ELZFWY}}
	- TODO shot 43: [[golf with your friends]] players / wishlist / sales chart #graphic
	- TODO shot 44: [[deep dip]] #publishing #footage/reference
	- TODO shot 45: [[chained together]] #publishing #footage/reference
	- TODO shot 46: [[ludwig]] [[foddian]] games tier list #publishing #footage/reference
	  collapsed:: true
		- {{video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jwm4sufOp84}}
	- TODO shot 47: slow motion (frame by frame) of icecream running around. glamour shots of ice cream (hair bounce, legs moving, hands holding &c) #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 48: text and images of future stuff #publishing #graphic
	- TODO shot 49: icecream sitting there looking at the stars/sun/moon moving (dream) #publishing #footage/singleplayer
	- TODO shot 50: roadmap #publishing #graphic
	- DONE shot 51: [[budget]] & resources #publishing #graphic
	- TODO shot 52: a lot of icecreams jumping down the mountain #publishing #footage/singleplayer