- [[2025/04/21]]
	- i've been reading this book, [[Why We Dance: a Philosophy of Bodily Becoming]] about dancing as a fundamental art form for human beings, and it's been pretty exciting to think of discone as a manifestation of these similar ideas.
		- i also started, finally, reading [[A Play of Bodies]] in parallel, which feels very intensely connected.
		- both are bringing attention to the motions itself our bodies create when existing through the world, with brendan keogh particularly interested in [[videogame]] (crucially, not [[video games]]), and how when playing them its our body interacting with the videogame body, and vice versa
		- LaMothe's big idea that is very hard to wrap my head around, but i'm slowly learning to love is one that is against materialism, against the primacy of matter, and instead one of movement.
	- in the last part i just read today, she mentions the idea that our senses developed to understand the movements that we make, and at the same time our ability to perceive and move with the other movements that surround us (trees, rocks, color, other creatures).
	- this made me think how since the first creation of [[starter island]], [[icecream]]'s character controller was developed to perceive and move around the island, the island we created helped shape the kinds of things icecream is able to do, and how she moves through the world.
		- it makes me very excited about creating a new character being a process that starts from some exploration, and then creating a space that is an idealized space for navigating with such character, "freezing" that space content wise and focusing most of the effort into realizing the characters movement in the space.
	- it's somewhat obvious at this point, but it makes me think how relevant to the development of a game a [[metric map]] actually is. i was a strong believer in the idea that [[mario 64]] was developed in a white room, until it felt good enough to move around in the barest of environments.
		- now i think that was maybe a too materialist/cartesian way of thinking movement design, the boundaries between the character and the world it exists in are very arbitrary, let the character be shaped by an interesting world, a blank world is still a world, that provides a set of affordances